README.md, before:

# PySpacer

[![CI Status](https://github.com/beijbom/pyspacer/actions/workflows/python-app.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/beijbom/pyspacer/actions/workflows/python-app.yml)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/pyspacer.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/pyspacer)

This repository provide utilities to extract features from random point 
locations in images and then training classifiers over those features.
It is used in the vision backend of `https://github.com/beijbom/coralnet`.

Spacer currently supports python >=3.8.

### Overview
Spacer executes tasks as defined in messages. The messages types are defined
in `messages.py` and the tasks in `tasks.py`. We also define several data-types
in `data_classes.py` which define input and output types. 

Refer to the unit-test in `test_tasks.py` for examples on how to create tasks.

Tasks can be executed directly by calling the methods in tasks.py. 
However, spacer also supports an interface with AWS Batch 
handled by `env_job()` in `mailman.py`. 

Spacer supports four storage types: `s3`, `filesystem`, `memory` and `url`.
 Refer to `storage.py` for details. The Memory storage is mostly used for 
 testing, and the `url` storage is read only.

Also take a look at `config.py` for settings and configuration. 

### Installation

The spacer repo can be installed in three ways.
* Using Docker -- the only option that supports Caffe.
* Local clone -- ideal for testing and development.
* Using pip install -- for integration in other code-bases.

#### Config
Spacer has three config variables. They can be set in any of the following ways:

1. As environment variables; recommended if you `pip install` the package. Each variable name must be prefixed with `SPACER_`:
   - `export SPACER_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID='YOUR_AWS_KEY_ID'`
   - `export SPACER_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY='YOUR_AWS_SECRET_KEY'`
   - `export SPACER_LOCAL_MODEL_PATH='/path/to/your/local/models'`
2. As a Django setting; recommended for a Django project that uses spacer. Example code in a Django settings module:
   ```python
   SPACER = {
       'AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID': 'YOUR_AWS_KEY_ID',
       'AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY': 'YOUR_AWS_SECRET_KEY',
       'LOCAL_MODEL_PATH': '/path/to/your/local/models',
   }
   ```
3. In a `secrets.json` file in the same directory as this README; recommended for Docker builds and local clones. Example `secrets.json` contents:
   ```json
   {
     "AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID": "YOUR_AWS_KEY_ID",
     "AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY": "YOUR_AWS_SECRET_KEY",
     "LOCAL_MODEL_PATH": "/path/to/your/local/models"
   }
   ```
   
LOCAL_MODEL_PATH is required. The two AWS access variables are required unless spacer is running on an AWS instance which has been set up with `aws configure`.

#### Docker build
The docker build is the preferred build and the one used in deployment.
* Install docker on your system
* Create `secrets.json` as detailed above.
* Create folder `/path/to/your/local/models` for caching model files.
* Build image: `docker build -t spacer:test .`
* Run: `docker run -v /path/to/your/local/models:/workspace/models -v ${PWD}:/workspace/spacer/ -it spacer:test`

The `-v /path/to/your/local/models:/workspace/models` part will make sure 
the downloaded models are cached to your host storage. 
which makes rerunning stuff much faster.

The `-v ${PWD}:/workspace/spacer/` mounts your current folder including 
`secrets.json` so that the container has the right permissions.

The last step will run the default CMD command specified in the dockerfile 
(unit-test with coverage). If you want to enter the docker container 
run the same command but append `bash` in the end.

#### Pip install
* `pip install pyspacer`
* Set environmental variables.

#### Local clone
* Clone this repo
* `pip install -r requirements.txt`

If using Windows: turn Git's `autocrlf` setting off before your initial checkout. Otherwise, pickled classifiers in `spacer/tests/fixtures` will get checked out with `\r\n` newlines, and the pickle module will fail to load them, leading to test failures. However, autocrlf should be left on when adding any new non-pickle files.

### Code coverage
If you are using the docker build or local install, 
you can check code coverage like so:
```
    coverage run --source=spacer --omit=spacer/tests/* -m unittest    
    coverage report -m
    coverage html
```

Commit message:

Config: 1) MAX_IMAGE_PIXELS, MAX_POINTS_PER_IMAGE, and MIN_TRAINIMAGES are now configurable. 2) Refactor + ensure that Django settings aren't used as a fallback if secrets.json is present. 3) Add check() function for configuration debugging.

README.md, after:

# PySpacer

[![CI Status](https://github.com/beijbom/pyspacer/actions/workflows/python-app.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/beijbom/pyspacer/actions/workflows/python-app.yml)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/pyspacer.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/pyspacer)

This repository provide utilities to extract features from random point 
locations in images and then training classifiers over those features.
It is used in the vision backend of `https://github.com/beijbom/coralnet`.

Spacer currently supports python >=3.8.

### Overview
Spacer executes tasks as defined in messages. The messages types are defined
in `messages.py` and the tasks in `tasks.py`. We also define several data-types
in `data_classes.py` which define input and output types. 

Refer to the unit-test in `test_tasks.py` for examples on how to create tasks.

Tasks can be executed directly by calling the methods in tasks.py. 
However, spacer also supports an interface with AWS Batch 
handled by `env_job()` in `mailman.py`. 

Spacer supports four storage types: `s3`, `filesystem`, `memory` and `url`.
 Refer to `storage.py` for details. The Memory storage is mostly used for 
 testing, and the `url` storage is read only.

Also take a look at `config.py` for settings and configuration. 

### Installation

The spacer repo can be installed in three ways.
* Using Docker -- the only option that supports Caffe.
* Local clone -- ideal for testing and development.
* Using pip install -- for integration in other code-bases.

#### Config
Spacer's config variables can be set in any of the following ways:

1. As environment variables; recommended if you `pip install` the package. Each variable name must be prefixed with `SPACER_`:
   - `export SPACER_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID='YOUR_AWS_KEY_ID'`
   - `export SPACER_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY='YOUR_AWS_SECRET_KEY'`
   - `export SPACER_LOCAL_MODEL_PATH='/path/to/your/local/models'`
2. As a Django setting; recommended for a Django project that uses spacer. Example code in a Django settings module:
   ```python
   SPACER = {
       'AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID': 'YOUR_AWS_KEY_ID',
       'AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY': 'YOUR_AWS_SECRET_KEY',
       'LOCAL_MODEL_PATH': '/path/to/your/local/models',
   }
   ```
3. In a `secrets.json` file in the same directory as this README; recommended for Docker builds and local clones. Example `secrets.json` contents:
   ```json
   {
     "AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID": "YOUR_AWS_KEY_ID",
     "AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY": "YOUR_AWS_SECRET_KEY",
     "LOCAL_MODEL_PATH": "/path/to/your/local/models"
   }
   ```
   
LOCAL_MODEL_PATH is required. The two AWS access variables are required unless spacer is running on an AWS instance which has been set up with `aws configure`. The rest of the config variables are optional; see `CONFIGURABLE_VARS` in `config.py` for a full list.

To debug your configuration, try opening a Python shell and run `from spacer import config`, then `config.check()`.

#### Docker build
The docker build is the preferred build and the one used in deployment.
* Install docker on your system
* Create `secrets.json` as detailed above.
* Create folder `/path/to/your/local/models` for caching model files.
* Build image: `docker build -t spacer:test .`
* Run: `docker run -v /path/to/your/local/models:/workspace/models -v ${PWD}:/workspace/spacer/ -it spacer:test`

The `-v /path/to/your/local/models:/workspace/models` part will make sure 
the downloaded models are cached to your host storage. 
which makes rerunning stuff much faster.

The `-v ${PWD}:/workspace/spacer/` mounts your current folder including 
`secrets.json` so that the container has the right permissions.

The last step will run the default CMD command specified in the dockerfile 
(unit-test with coverage). If you want to enter the docker container 
run the same command but append `bash` in the end.

#### Pip install
* `pip install pyspacer`
* Set environmental variables.

#### Local clone
* Clone this repo
* `pip install -r requirements.txt`

If using Windows: turn Git's `autocrlf` setting off before your initial checkout. Otherwise, pickled classifiers in `spacer/tests/fixtures` will get checked out with `\r\n` newlines, and the pickle module will fail to load them, leading to test failures. However, autocrlf should be left on when adding any new non-pickle files.

### Code coverage
If you are using the docker build or local install, 
you can check code coverage like so:
```
    coverage run --source=spacer --omit=spacer/tests/* -m unittest    
    coverage report -m
    coverage html
```
